PETE LEPAGE: In Chrome 72,
creating public class fields
in JavaScript is
now a lot cleaner.
You can see if a page has been
activated with the new user
activation API, and localizing
lists becomes way easier.
And there's plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 72.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My first language was Java.
And when I started
learning JavaScript,
it threw me for a bit of a loop.
How did I create a class,
or deal with inheritance?
What about public and private
properties and methods?
Many of the recent
updates to JavaScript
make object-oriented
programming much easier.
I can now create classes that
mostly work like I expect them
to, complete with
constructors, getters
and setters, static methods,
and public properties.
Thanks to V8 7.2, which
ships with Chrome 72,
you can now declare public
class fields directly
in the class definition,
eliminating the need
to do it in the constructor.
Support for private class
field is in the works.
Head over to Matthias's
article on class fields
for more details.
Remember when sites could
automatically play sound
as soon as the page loaded?
You had to scramble
to hit the Mute key
or figure out which tab
it was and close it.
That's why some APIs require
activation via user gesture
before they work.
Unfortunately, browsers
handle this activation
in different ways.
Chrome 72 introduces
user activation v2,
which simplifies user
activation for all gated APIs.
It's based on a
new specification
that aims to standardize
how activation
works across all browsers.
There's a new user
activation property
on both navigator
and message event
that has two properties-- has
been active and is active.
Has been active indicates if
the associated window has ever
seen a user activation in
its life cycle, and is active
indicates if the
associated window currently
has a user activation
in its life cycle.
We'll have a detailed
write-up on developers.googl
e.com/web/updates shortly,
so keep an eye out for that.
I really love the Intl APIs.
They're super helpful
for localizing content
into other languages.
In Chrome 72, there's
a new method that
makes rendering lists easier.
Like other Intl APIs,
it shifts the burden
to the JavaScript engine
without sacrificing performance.
Initialize it with the local
you want, then call format
and it'll use the
correct words and syntax.
It can do conjunctions,
which adds the localized
equivalent of and, and look at
those beautiful Oxford commas.
It can do disjunctions, adding
the localized equivalent of or,
and by providing some additional
options, you can do even more.
Check out Matthias's
post for more details.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 72
for developers.
There's plenty more.
Chrome 72 changes the
behavior of cache.addALL
to better match the spec.
Previously, if there
were duplicate entries
in the same call, later
requests would simply
overwrite that first request.
To match the spec if there
are duplicate entries,
it will reject with an
invalid state error.
Requests for fave icons are now
handled by the service worker
as long as the request URL is on
the same origin as the service
worker.
And of course,
there's plenty more.
So check them out.
All the details,
including docs and specs,
are in the updates post
linked in the description.
Be sure to check out the latest
Chrome DevTools video to learn
what's new in DevTools.
Then click the Subscribe
button and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 73 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.